# Customer-Analytics

### Executive summary
KyngaCell’s latest game, Nicht-Soporific, contains a new online community feature that is assumed to have increased user revenue, retention, and customer lifetime value within the game. However, instead of blindly believing this claim, the firm would like to conduct additional  analysis that can provide a more definitive answer about the effectiveness of this new feature.
In order to test the effect on user revenue, we created a differences-in-differences model that compares the revenue of those who joined the community and those who did not at one month before and after the launch of the new feature. We found a significant increase in user revenue of 29 dollars accredited to the new online community feature; however, the sample size of 199 presents a potential limitation because it is not large enough for a definitive conclusion.
For testing the effect on retention, we created a logistic regression model that predicts the probability of a customer churning based on spending, churn status, and monthly age. We found that if a user joined the community, they had a 0.21 higher probability of churning (i.e. the online community had a negative effect on retention). The data provided could present a limitation on this conclusion because three months could potentially be too short to see the return.
Looking at customer lifetime value (CLV), we ran a regression based on various customer attributes and found that the new community feature decreases CLV by $26. This conclusion coincides with the conclusion of joining the community decreasing retention and therefore could indicate that there is a need for additional data for more accurate interpretations.
With the new “Campaign/Organic” variable, we could introduce analysis that indicates the value of marketing campaigns. This insight could potentially help the CFO in determining the allocation of funds and whether or not there is value in additional marketing expenditures.
### Introduction
When implementing new features within an application, it is extremely important to analyze the effects of this feature in order to definitively know whether or not the implementation impacted user behavior. This analysis can help companies evaluate these features and properly reallocate resources if the feature is not effective. KyngaCell, a leader in the mobile gaming industry, is interested in assessing the effectiveness of their new online community feature in regard to increased revenue, retention, and customer lifetime value. 
### Data Description
Data was obtained on various behaviors of 199 users before and after the introduction of the online community. These behaviors include whether the user joined the community (41% joined), the spend of users one month before (avg = $78) and one month after (avg = $121) the introduction of the community, and the number of months a user had been playing the game before the community was introduced (avg = 4). Data was also included on whether each user churned within the first 90 days following the introduction of the online community (59% churned) and how much each user spent in their last 90 days using the app (avg = $80).
### Evaluating Revenue: Model and Results
The data provided consist of users’ spending one month before and one month after the launch of the online community feature. Additionally, there is information about whether or not that customer joined the online community. With this data, we can build a differences-in-differences (diff-in-diff) model where we assess the spending differences of two groups (those who joined the online community and those who did not) and compare those spending differences at two different points in time (one month before and one month after the feature launch). Comparing the group differences at these two points in time will allow us to assess the exact effect of joining the online community on user spending.
Based on the diff-in-diff model created, there is strong evidence that joining the online community feature can increase user revenue. Comparing the group spending differences before and after the launch of the online community, we found out that there is a significant increase of 29 dollars in revenue due to the new feature. Hence we can draw the conclusion that the launch of the online community helped increase sales by a factor of $29; however it is important to note that the small sample size poses a limitation to this conclusion, simply because there is not enough data to reach a definitive conclusion.
### Evaluating Retention: Model and Results
 The data provided contain customers’ spending and churn status in the three months following the online community launch, as well as the monthly age of the customer at the time of the online community launch. With this information we can create a logistic regression model that predicts the probability of a customer churning or not based on their spending, whether or not they joined the online community, and their monthly age. We chose a logistic regression because it provides a quantified value for the strength of the association while adjusting for other variables (removes confounding effects). The exponential of coefficients correspond to the odds ratios for the given factor, which enables us to achieve a result with strong interpretation power.
Based on our logistic regression model, the online community will not raise the user retention rate. We found that whether the user joined the online community or not is the only factor that has a statistically significant impact on the probability of churn. The coefficient estimate of this variable “join” being 0.21, means that if a customer joined the online community, their probability of churning increased by 0.21. To assess the model accuracy, we looked at the classification error, which is the proportion of observations that have been misclassified. From this error, we found the accuracy of the model is 0.6281; we can then prove that the prediction is quite accurate and validate our initial conclusion.  Intuitively, joining the online community should decrease the churn rate, but our analysis says otherwise. Three months, however, could be too short to see the return on retention, so the data may not be valid for the assumption. Also, it is possible that other unobserved factors may also be interfering with the result.
### Evaluating Customer Lifetime Value: Model and Results
When determining whether joining the online community had any affect on Customer Lifetime Value (CLV), we used predicted churn rates and calculated profit margin from average spending of users in their last 90 days using the app. The regression showed that joining the online community had an effect on CLV, however it was not positive. The results showed that joining the online community was correlated with a $26 decrease in CLV. This finding goes hand-in-hand with the finding that joining the community was related to decreased retention. Predicting CLV is incredibly difficult, and relies on an accurate prediction of churn along with other factors. While the direction of the relationship between joining the community and CLV may be accurate (negative), more user data would make the analysis of the size of the effect more accurate. There also may be other factors affecting CLV for which this model does not account for. Additional data on whether the user joined the company organically or via a marketing campaign was included in the dataset, so further analysis on whether this impacts CLV is included in Appendix A. 
### Evaluating Marketing Campaigns: Potential Metrics
As mentioned above, the addition of whether a user joined the app via a marketing campaign or organically into analysis of income, retention, and CLV can provide insight into the value of the marketing campaigns. Ideally, users who download the app from a marketing campaign will spend more than organic users and have a higher CLV, as they had a higher cost to attract. It could also be interesting to determine if how a user downloaded the app had an effect on whether or not the user joined the online community. If there are key differences in behaviors based on this factor, the team may need to target these groups of users differently. If there are not any differences, the CFO may wish to reevaluate the current marketing strategy. 
## Conclusion
Adding the online community for app users had mixed results on customer behaviors. Joining the community led to a $29 increase in spending by users which would not have happened had the community not been introduced. However, those who joined the community were more likely to churn within a 90-day period and overall had a lower Customer Lifetime Value. The company must now decide whether short-term income gains or long-term increases in retention and CLV are of more importance. This also shows that it is important to always back up beliefs with data, otherwise important insights may be missed.
